Hello guys as we go through the next lessons I will be explaining everything you need to know in order
to get your film ready to Gutenburg this new tool yet to be officially launched by WordPress.
Named after the great German inventor of the printing press.
By the time to record this video.
Good Enberg is still being developed.
The official release is expected for the year 2018 along with wordpress version five point 0.
So maybe if you're watching this video by the end of 2018 or later you don't even need to wonder what
good number is.
But right now that's a question and each answer here basically good Alberg is the new Word Press editor.
Its main goal remains the same of the old editor under the hood.
Content created in the editor is still sent to the same WordPress post table and still retrieved by
the content function within the same loops but it will be unfair to say that it's just the redesign
of the old advertiser the Wordpress team is really expecting to see good Amberg as a watershed in content
creation.
It's a new way of thinking about the content and this richness as a whole new tentative for which content
creation for pages posts and custom post types within the CMOS WordPress prompts is that creating content
with this new tool will become much faster easier and without mysteries.
That is why we have so much buzz around the official release.
Well if it is going to be easier or not only time will tell for now.
Like everything you good Albert has been causing a bit of controversy mainly because let's be real.
It's really annoying and complicated to do with changes.
That's part of being human.
If you look at the Wordpress plugins repository very good Amberg is already available as a plugin before
the official release.
Of course we should then bring it into the core.
Look most people don't feel satisfied.
Bugs are still crucial for the project as you see as we go through the lessons but we're still at the
beginning.
Good work is still evolving over the next lessons.
My goal will be to explain how good work works will understand its basic functions only the main ones
are cases.
Reason number one as the tool was still evolving.
New features will be incorporated with time and reason number two.
This course is more focused on developers so we are going to limit ourselves here to explaining what
will change from the developers point of view.
Not the end user's point of view.
Right but anyway the basic Futurist I am going to show you your ready help you stand on your own two
feet.
As good Amberg evolves the main structures here will be that will grab the theme that we're developing
in this course and see what more we need to add to say in the end that the theme is good Amberg ready.
You see that it's not so difficult and you'll be able to offer a theme whether for your client or anywhere
else you can say it's ready for good Amber.
As I said before this is an evolving tool than possibly new lessons to be added to the course.
If there is any other functionality that impacts your work as a developer.
So stay tuned.
Well I talked too much but it didn't show anything to you until now.
In this first lesson then I'll start by installing and enabling Gutenburg in our WordPress installation.
By the time our record is video WordPress version four point nine point eight has just been released.
So this version is showing this invitation right here on the dashboard inviting users to get to know
the new publishing too so you can be sure that your client will want to know what this little thing
here is so soon your theme you'll need to comply with the latest requirement I say.
But there is no reason to panic right now you have the options to install good here by clicking this
button which says Install Gorenberg.
Also download it directly from the plugin repository.
Which means also go into plugins add new search for good work
and it's going to be here.
If you're reading using WordPress 5.0 there is no need to do this since Gramberg will be included by
default in wordpress.
However if we go back here to the home page you see that we can continue using the classic editor which
still uses the tiny MC extension.
I believe that from version 5 point all on words there should also be a way to choose whether or not
you use good Amberg.
No one knows exactly at the moment.
Well lets start off first.
It's always recommended to back up your installation.
OK never know I'm going to click here to install good MBR
and as soon as I click activate this demo page appears and this is good Hamburg howre new editor.
And here's an interesting thing if you compare this new look and the classic editor it's not 30 others
or has been only redesigned it's been totally revisited.
Gutenberg is totally different from the classic tiny MC editor and if you scroll down to see the content
you'll see a lot of things that it couldn't get before using the old classic editor for example image
galleries like this one
or a full size image like this.
Or a full size video indeed.
A lot of fantastic stuff when compared to the old Adager.
In fact those things were possible but it was more difficult to achieve all this.
We needed to rely on short calls but then we could only see the code in the editor but not its result
inside the screen.
As you can now I haven't needed to use plugins.
Good Enberg is common to change that making things more clear.
Like feeling bad for example a lot of people used unnecessary plugins for this.
Now the process is more clear.
Just add a block and you're done in a way the editor looks a lot like those page builders like the builder
elementary visual composer and others good Hamburgh is not going to replace page builders even because
it's not common to put anyone out of business as the Wordpress team has already stated and it's quite
the opposite.
It's coming to evolve WordPress So there's more business to be had in the future for everyone so it
won't replace page builders but in a way it will bring a similar experience for the user.
But before your theme needs to be prepared to use all this in the best possible way.
That's what we start learning in the next lessons.
Well see you then in the next lesson and you'll then.